# Gen AI – Template Pipeline - Beta version

The `gen_ai_product_opt` template pipeline demonstrates a general Generative AI use case. Specifically, it analyzes and improves listed product titles and descriptions to increase search visibility.

While the steps' content in this example is specific to the use case at hand, the pipeline's structure, use of Azure OpenAI models, and prompt definition are generically re-applicable to most GenAI use cases. We recommend using this example as a skeleton for your GenAI use cases by replacing the code in each step and the parameters defined in your configuration file. **Currently, the `gen_ai_product_opt` pipeline is limited to local execution and AML. This capability will be later extended to remaining cloud providers.**

Please note that this example assumes your I/O is stored in file storage. In many realistic use cases, you will read data from the Spark metastore (CDL data) or from BigQuery (consumer data lake). In this case, you should change the preprocessing step or add another step to extract data. The data extraction from these sources will be demonstrated in future examples.

Please note that this pipeline is in beta version.

## Files

This template pipeline adds the following files to your repository:

- `config/pipeline_gen_ai.yml`: Creates a typical GenAI pipeline with the following steps:
  - `data_preprocessing` (`steps/gen_ai_product_opt/data_preprocessing.py`): Reads data from blob storage, performs basic text transformation, and writes the results to the work directory. Note that this step uses [ioslots](https://developerportal.pg.com/docs/default/Component/PyrogAI/io_overview/).
  - `cosine_similarity` (`steps/gen_ai_product_opt/cosine_similarity.py`): Creates vector embeddings and calculate cosine similarity to find top search keywords
  - `content_generation` (`steps/gen_ai_product_opt/content_generation.py`): Generates optimized product titles and descriptions based on original listed product titles and descriptions as well as top search keywords
- `config/config_gen-ai-product-opt.json`: configuration parameters for the pipeline
- `reqs/requirements_gen_ai.txt`: package requirements for the pipeline
- `utils/gen_ai_product_opt/base_genai_step.py`: a customized base step for using OpenAI and Pyrogai functionalities
- `utils/gen_ai_product_opt/prompts.py`: a collection of prompts or texts describing instructions to get a specific response from an OpenAI chat model
- `utils/gen_ai_product_opt/toolkit.py`: utilities for working with GenAI/OpenAI LLMs

## Configuration Parameters

The `config_gen-ai-product-opt.json` file contains the following keys:

- `gen_ai_product_opt`, with the following subkeys:
  - `data_dir`: Folder which contains the input data, relative to the base path implied by the provider
  - `chat_engine`: OpenAI chat model
  - `embedding_engine`: OpenAI embedding model
  - `distance_strategy`: Distance metric for similarity search
  - `similarity_threshold`: Minimum accepted similarity value that can be used as a benchmark
  - `num_results`: Number of results to be returned
  - `temperature`: A parameter that controls randomness of texts generated by a chat model
  - `genai_proxy`: GenAI platform proxy
  - `cognitive_services`: Set of OpenAI or GenAI platform APIs to interact with
  - `open_api_version`: Particular release of Open API
  - `headers`: Additional information to be sent along with a request to the GenAI platform
    - `userid`: @pg.com email address of a person utilizing the GenAI platform
    - `project-name`: Project name should match one from the itaccess group created for your project
  - `token_refresh_thre`: Remaining time in seconds to refresh access to the GenAI platform before expiration

## Secrets
If you want to run the `gen_ai_product_opt` template pipeline locally using your pg account, skip this section and jump to the next one on how to grant [access to the GenAI platform](#access-to-the-genai-platform).

For running the `gen_ai_product_opt` template pipeline locally or on your AML platform using service principal credentials, some additional secret configuration is required. If you have created your project using AI Provisioner, you should have your service principal credentials (AML-APP-SP-ID and AML-APP-SP-SECRET) stored in an appropriate Azure keyvault. If not, upload the service principal credentials to the keyvault.

To be able to run the `gen_ai_product_opt` template pipeline locally using the service principal, the following secrets need to be added to secrets.json in your config module.
```sh
{
  "AML-APP-SP-ID": "service principal id",
  "AML-APP-SP-SECRET": "service principal secret",
  "tenant-id": "azure tenant id"
}
```
To be able to run the `gen_ai_product_opt` template pipeline on AML, upload the values in secrets.json to the Azure keyvault.

## Access to the GenAI Platform

In order to take full advantage of Generative AI capabilities and services, a required access to the GenAI platform is needed. See [how-to get your access to GenAI](https://developerportal.pg.com/docs/default/Component/genAI-Platform/access/).

## Usage

**Important:** Open all the steps and files created with the template, and modify them based on your needs, before you attempt to run the pipeline.

### Install requirements

After importing this gen_ai_product_opt pipeline, find the relative path to requirements_gen_ai_product_opt.txt and install all the necessary dependencies:

```sh
pip install -r <RELATIVE_PATH>/requirements_gen_ai_product_opt.txt
```

### Parameters

This pipeline does not have any runtime parameters. To add runtime parameters, see [pipeline creation](https://developerportal.pg.com/docs/default/component/pyrogai/aif.pyrogai.pipelines.models.pipeline/) and [run time parameters in steps](https://developerportal.pg.com/docs/default/component/pyrogai/aif.pyrogai.steps.step/#aif.pyrogai.steps.step--runtime-parameters).


### Datasets setup
Download advertised_products.parquet and product_keywords.parquet from [the sharepoint site](https://pgone.sharepoint.com/sites/AIFUserFiles/Tutorial%20Data/Forms/AllItems.aspx?id=%2Fsites%2FAIFUserFiles%2FTutorial%20Data%2FGenAIData&viewid=5510c1e4%2D1bc7%2D4f0f%2D8bee%2D93bc5b9ba294).
- For local pipeline runs, save the parquet files in the root project directory in the folder called `genai_data`.
- For AML pipeline runs, upload the `genai_data` folder containing the downloaded data to Azure Blob Storage defined in provider_aml.yml in your config module.

If the `genai_data` folder does not exist, create one. Make sure the folder name matches the value of `data_dir` in `config_gen-ai-product-opt.json`.

### Unit Testing in Your Project
When you pull your project's pipeline, you'll find the tests under the `src/<your project name>/tests/` directory. There are two main approaches to creating your own unit tests:
- Using Pyrogai Mock from the Pyrogai library
- Creating your own mock

**Approach 1: Using Pyrogai Mock**

This is the recommended method for most cases.
For documentation, refer to: [Pyrogai Mock Documentation](https://developerportal.pg.com/docs/default/Component/PyrogAI/test_mock_step/)
To see implementation examples, you can pull the `ml_iris` or `ml_skeleton` pipelines.

**Approach 2: Creating Your Own Mock**

If you prefer this method, refer to the test examples that came with your pipeline.

To get started, pull your project's pipeline and navigate to the tests directory. Choose the approach that best suits your needs and refer to the provided examples for guidance.

### How to run example

```bash
# Run locally
aif pipeline run --pipelines gen_ai_product_opt --environment dev
```

```bash
# Run on AML platform
aif pipeline run --pipelines gen_ai_product_opt --environment dev --platform AML
```

### Extra configuration (Optional)
If the `gen_ai_product_opt` template pipeline is not able to access the GenAI platform from AML, some private endpoint between AML and AKS (in which the GenAI platform is deployed) needs to be created. Reach out to the Azure platform team for support on this matter.